docs: document AI-Q 2.2 candidate scope (#322)
NVIDIA-AI-Blueprints/aiq-research-assistant: docs/source/architecture/agents/deep-researcher.md

# Deep Researcher Agent

The Deep Researcher coordinates a structured research pipeline that separates
source routing, planning, evidence collection, and final synthesis. It uses
task subagents under an orchestrator plus reusable researcher workers created
with the [`deepagents`](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/deepagents/overview)
and [LangChain](https://docs.langchain.com/) libraries.

**Location:** `src/aiq_agent/agents/deep_researcher/agent.py`

> For optional DeepAgents sandbox execution and operational notes, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For optional DeepAgents sandbox execution and operational notes, refer to
```

| `tools_info` | `list[dict]` or `None` | `None` | Available-tool metadata |
| `todos` | `list[dict]` | `[]` | Top-level progress list managed by the orchestrator |
| `files` | `dict` | `{}` | Merge-reduced virtual filesystem containing plans, notes, output, and optional parent-report context |
| `subagents` | `list[dict]` | `[]` | Status of configured DeepAgents task subagents; researcher worker invocations are not stored here |
| `rubric` | `str` or `None` | `None` | Optional DeepAgents rubric state |
| `clarifier_result` | `str` or `None` | `None` | Clarification log containing missing context or requested output-shape preferences gathered before research |
| `available_documents` | `list[AvailableDocument]` or `None` | `None` | User-uploaded documents and summaries available as research context |

When present, `clarifier_result` is injected as context. The planner
independently creates the `ResearchPlan` inside the deep-research workflow.

## Configuration

The architecture is configured through `DeepResearchAgentConfig` (NeMo Agent
Toolkit type name: `deep_research_agent`). The workflow-shaping parameters

> are summarized here; see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are summarized here; refer to the
```
